---
title: Building Universal Community Health Protection as a DAO
description: Health Insurance in India is broken, 780 million Indians can’t or won’t buy health insurance!
date: 2022-05-08
author: Shailabh
tags:
  - healthcare
  - participation
  - inclusive
  - insurance
  - mutuals
  - DAO
layout: layouts/post.njk
---
## Background
<p>Health Insurance in India is broken! <u>780 million of Indians
can’t or won’t buy health insurance for an array of reasons and those
who buy it</u>, rarely, have a good experience. COVID affected
hospitalisations was a recent testimony as to how many insurance
buyers were treated, when it came to claims. Insurance moved out of
communities, to make itself more viable, by adding more individual
risks to the pool, but in doing so, it created mis aligned incentives
and inefficiencies. Mis aligned incentives in product design and
resulting inefficiencies in this three-player model
(insurer-insured-care providers) insuring mostly hospitalization,
results in parties winning at the cost of the other and in doing so
creates distrust and premium cost escalation. </p>

<p>Health is a unique risk in that it is a personal one very much
dependent on the person. To pay for such a personal risk via an
indirectly pooled model has been always seen as a grey zone-often
exploited by different stakeholders in the health insurance ecosystem
in myriad ways. Managing very large directly pooled risk
(shared/mutual/cooperative) has been a problem many have tried to
solve in the past with varying degrees of success. It requires a
strong governance and good governance practices, that are expensive
and time taking, and for a country like India where the costs must be
low, they become a bottleneck to scale.</p>

<p>With 67 insurers (indirect pools) for a 1.4 billion population and
60% of total health expenses in India being paid out of pocket, the
argument for health insurance is a no brainer. Yet over 780 million
people are still out of any health protection either given by the
State or after buying from the market. We seek to change that. We seek
to bring the aligned incentives of the community model and the ability
to scale across communities and individuals without the inefficiencies
and misalignment that traditional insurance is plagued with.</p>


## How can we re-imagine this?
We propose to think of this as a DAO, and are in the process of
setting up an experiment to evaluate how well it can function. If
you'd like to read more, please do head over to our <a
href="https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Sh7tXZyU2iO6tMwiLiIYdXbkTq1j_pWJ?usp=sharing">Reading
Group</a> <i>(please do request permission to read more)</i>.
