---
title: What are we doing?
description: What are we doing and how are we different from existing models?
date: 2023-01-01
---


In its most pristine form, nature does not discriminate-it may differentiate but not discriminate. For example, a water source is available to every organism for consumption to survive. From lions to birds to deers', crocodiles to the fish living in it.

We are building a low cost high cover access to credit model via a mutual design. Insurance is a game of numbers- the larger the number of participants the better the cover. It also helps in reducing the premium if there is a substantial number of participants with varied backgrounds as the frequency of claims become lower than expected.

While this is true for all other models out there- the benefit of large numbers and there subsequent impact on premiums do not reflect in real time. We aim to change that. On a daily basis, based on the participants in the pool, the number of claims or the amount of claims can improve, bringing more value for money to the participants. Subsequently the contribution amount may vary day to day basis based on the claims demand.

One of the biggest challenges that insurance customers face is not knowing whats happening to their contributed money when they dont get a claim. It is assumed that the premium is the cost of cover and once paid to the insurer, it does not return (health cover) unless explicitly mentioned by the insurer (money back products)
We are doing away with this not knowing.

Participants to PRSPR would use a daily wallet system to pay for the claims that originate that day. The remainder would be returned to their wallet. It would inform the participant as to how many people received claims thanks to their contribution.
